Thus far we already learn a lot about the built in pipes or pipes in general we learned how to use them
where to find out more about them how to pass parameters or possibly multiple parameters and also how
to change pipes.
This is great but sometimes you need some functionality which just isn't built in.
In this case you need to create your own pipe.
And thankfully this is super simple.
Now creating our own pipe is as simple as creating a new file in your app folder and then giving it
a descriptive name.
For example here I want to create a pipe which shortens my my words the input because let's say I want
to shorten this name of my server.
So the testing environment server somehow gets cut off.
Now for this I will create a shortened pipe so I will name the file shortened or piped or ts to keep
this naming convention of being descriptive about what's in a file.
Now this newly created typescript file should simply hold a clause which I explored of course which
will name shortened pipe now this shortened pipe This class needs to have one special method to be usable
as a pipe and was not strictly necessary.
It's a good practice to implement a certain interface which requires you to implement that method.
The interface is called pipe transform and you need to import it from an angular slash core.
So make sure to add this import at the top pipe transform from an angular core.
And with that implemented you see that I now get an error in my ID.
You would also get an error if you now tried to compile this.
Because what we need to do here is we need to apply or we need to provide the trends for him method.
Now adding the transfer method like this still is not 100 percent correct.
Transform needs to receive the value which should get transformed.
So we need to get the value here which is of type any.
And then we would receive a list of arguments.
Now for now our pipe here doesn't take any arguments so I will admit any other arguments here in the
transform method.
So we only received the value.
Now to shorten this value a quick and easy way to do this would be to return.
And this is important.
Transform always needs to return something because a pipe is just you put something in.
You get something out.
So you need to get something out about why it will work.
So here we want to return a new string and this new string should be the old.
Well you but somehow a shortened and we could simply use the substring method substructure.
This is a built in method javascript office where you can define how long this string to substring you
want to extract should be.
So you want to start at index 0 at the start of de-value and then let's say you want to have 10 characters
long.
This would only give us back the first 10 characters.
Again we can see this if we save it like this returning the substring of values so that we only get
the first 10 characters.
Now you use this pipe.
We need to go to AB module and add two declarations here to shorten pipe.
So just like components and directives you also need to add pipes to declarations.
Make sure to also add the import pointing to the short and apply that TS file of course as always without
the dot ts at the end here.
Now with this added we make this pipe a whale lable and then we can go to our AB component and use it.
I'd say but how would we use it.
Well we have to go back to the shortened pipe first.
This class is implementing the interface we need to implement but it lacks one important thing we need
to add a special decorator deep pipe decorator which is also imported from an angular core in the pipe
decorator.
You can specify the name for the pipe by simply adding name and then for example shorten now by setting
it up like this.
You can now go to your template and on the server instance type which is sitting on the server name.
Here we simply add a pipe symbol and now shorten our own pipe.
Now if we do this and say if you see it gets cut off.
And if we count characters.
This looks like 10 characters so our shortened pipe is in use.
It's not super pretty though so we can improve our pipe and this is now something which has not really
related to pipes.
I'm simply adding a new string to my shortened string and this will simply be three dots and maybe a
blank space in front of it.
So now shortening should look a bit prettier because now we can it off.
Though we always see the three strings.
So another improvement might be to first check if the character.
Excuse me if the string is really longer than 10 characters.
So here I first check if value length is greater than 10 characters because only if it is greater.
Only in this case.
I want to shorten that.
Otherwise I will return the unchanged value.
So now in this case you see if this reloads it shortens all these names.
But if we were to remove the server here and the blank space on the first server so that it's shust
called production therefore it just has 10 characters.
You see now we don't have the free dots here because we improved our plight but this is all pure javascript
kuning not really related to pipes.
The important part about pipes is that you.
A.
Add this pipe decorator.
Make sure you have to transform method possibly enforced by adding the pipe transform interface which
is a good idea which is a good practice and C by adding your pipe to the declarations array in your
ab module.
And with that you get to use your own pipe and create your own pipes and adjust them to your needs.
Now let's improve this pipe in the next lecture